# Foreward to Stuart Farrimond's The Science of Spice

Many cooks are intimidated by spices. All too often, a pot of spice is bought for a recipe then pushed into the gloomy depths of the back of a kitchen cupboard, where it remains untouched for many years. This should not be so, for spices are the life blood of countless dishes. Neglecting spices does a disservice to a cook’s culinary talents. They not only enhance the natural flavours of a dish, but can bring new flavours and aromas to familiar foods, exciting all our senses. To cook without spices is like composing an orchestral opus without a string section; cooks who view spicing as a grind of black pepper or a spoon of curry powder need to embrace the richness that spices can offer. 

This book is for cooks who want to experience new flavour combinations that will both excite and delight. Prescriptive recipes can frustrate the creative cook, but until recently, the only way to know which spices would blend together was by trial and error. Personal experience, tradition, and a sprinkle of intuition were the ingredients for making spice mixes. Not any more, because scientific discoveries have turned old-fashioned ideas on their head. Spices can be blended and added to dishes that had not previously been considered, and no-one should be shackled by recipes from chefs, internet “gurus”, or family tradition. This book is the culmination of an ambitious, never-before-attempted project that aims to serve up some easy-to-follow, science-based principles that will hopefully transform the way you use spices in your cooking. 

It is important that ancient wisdom is not cast aside, however. Centuries of cookery experience  are the bedrock of every country’s food heritage, and here you will explore the traditional range of spices used in key regions and countries around the world. A variety of top chefs who specialize in different regional cuisines have contributed some of their favourite spice mixes and recipes. Rather than starting from a blank canvas, you can use the spice blends as a foundation upon which new creations can be built. The recipes showcase some of these blends, and also suggest using innovative spice combinations to add a tantalizing twist to familiar dishes. 

Whether you’re an experienced cook or a complete beginner, I hope that you will be inspired and empowered to unleash your culinary talents. Add a sprinkle of flavour science or ladle in dollop-loads; let this guide open up a world of sensational new gastronomic delights. Never again will your spice jars languish in the dark!

### Spice Profile Index

[Garlic](./garlic.md)
